The worst thing you can do for your AI search visibility is destroy your SEO.

I've shared dozens of examples throughout the year of sites quickly losing SEO visibility on Google, with ChatGPT citations following the same trajectory shortly after. I've added a screenshot from my upcoming talks with a couple of examples of this, as well as a similar slide by Natzir Turrado, who recently shared the same thing. (If you don't read Spanish, it says "if you fall in Google, you fall in AI.")

Yet many of the things I've seen folks recommending for GEO are bad ideas for SEO.

I believe a lot of this stems from new GEO practitioners not having enough SEO experience to make good long-term decisions. SEO isn't something you can learn overnight. You need years of experience to understand the cyclical nature of how once-effective tactics can actually become liabilities once search engines start identifying and treating them as spam. 

This is especially true for the "too good to be true" tactics that get popularized and shared throughout the industry. I like to assume that the folks on the search engines' spam teams are always watching what we're up to.

If you're comfortable with rapid growth for a few months and then crashing on the other side, go for it. But most brands can't take that kind of risk.

Years of SEO experience give you the context to anticipate when a too-good-to-be-true tactic is really just a loophole, and to play "defensive" SEO. SEO is as much about what NOT to do as it is about what to do.

We've been in a bit of a gold rush with AI search for the past two years, where lots of new approaches have truly worked to manipulate AI responses and citations for a short period. But those tactics are clearly catching up to many sites now. I've been documenting dozens of examples of sites algorithmically crashing or receiving manual actions this year for excessive SEO/GEO-driven spam. Plus, we now have Google employees publicly discouraging "inauthentic mentions" and other GEO hacks, so we know it's on their radar.

I'm also working on new research showing that LLMs like ChatGPT and Claude are clearly taking steps to mitigate spam and manipulation in their responses and citations. Stay tuned for that!

In my opinion, the best approach is the one that leaves your brand being cited and recommended *after* the AI companies clean up the spam.